<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

### Table of Contents

-   [Generator][2]
    -   [Parameters][3]
    -   [Examples][4]
    -   [destinationName][5]
    -   [optionPrompt][6]
        -   [Parameters][7]
    -   [prompting][8]
    -   [copyTemplate][9]
        -   [Parameters][10]
    -   [extendJson][11]
        -   [Parameters][12]
    -   [extendTsConfig][13]
        -   [Parameters][14]
    -   [extendPackage][15]
        -   [Parameters][16]
    -   [addScripts][17]
        -   [Parameters][18]
    -   [sortScripts][19]
        -   [Parameters][20]

## Generator

A replacement [Generator][21]
class with extensions, to be used as a base class for actual generators.

### Parameters

-   `args` **([string][22] \| [Array][23])** Generator arguments.
-   `opts` **[Object][24]** Generator options.

### Examples

```javascript
const { Generator } = require('@batterii/yeoman-helpers');

class MyGenerator extends Generator {
	 // Implement your generator here as normal.
}

module.exports = MyGenerator;
```

### destinationName

The base name of the destination directory.

### optionPrompt

Register an option/prompt hybrid. Options registered this way can be set
through Yeoman CLI options and `#composeWith` as normal. The generator
will start its run by prompting the user for any hybrid options that were
not provided, in the same order they were registered.

#### Parameters

-   `config` **[Object][24]** 
    -   `config.name` **[string][22]** The option name. Equivalent to the `name`
           argument of the `#option` method and the `question.name` argument of
           the `#prompt` method.
    -   `config.type` **[string][22]** The prompt type to show, either 'input'
           or 'confirm'. This will be mapped to a corresponding option type for
           CLI usage.
    -   `config.alias` **[string][22]** Short option name for CLI usage.
           Equivalent to `config.alias` on the `#option` method.
    -   `config.description` **[string][22]** Full description of the option for
           the CLI `-h` and `--help` flags. Equivalent to `config.description` on
           the `#option` method.
    -   `config.message` **[string][22]** Message to show the user when
           prompting for the option. This should be similar to
           `config.description`, except phrased as an instruction or question.
           Equivalent to the `question.message` argument for the `#prompt`
           method.
    -   `config.default` **([function][25] \| [string][22] \| [boolean][26])** A default value for
            the prompt, or a function that returns or resolves with one.
            Equivalent to the `question.default` argument for the `#prompt`
            method, except that a function does not recieve any arguments.
    -   `config.validate` **[function][25]** A function that recieves the user's
            input as an argument. Return `true` for valid input, a string message
            for invalid input, or `false` for a default message. Equivalent to
            the 	`question.validate` argument for the `#prompt` method, except
            that it is also applied to a CLI argument, ensuring unity betwen the
            two forms of input.
    -   `config.allowed` **[function][25]** A function that recieves the current
            `options` object and returns either `true` or `false`. If provided,
            and false is returned, the CLI option will be ignored and no prompt
            will be shown for it. Instead, its value will be equal to
           `config.whenProhibited`. Use these two options in conjunction when an
            option should not be configurable based on other options.
    -   `config.whenProhibited` **([string][22] \| [boolean][26])** The value to use for
            the option when `config.allowed` is provided and returns `false`.

### prompting

Prompts for any missing options defined by `#optionPrompt`. This is
re-assigned onto the prototype of any subclass, and will run before other
tasks since Yeoman [prioritizes it based on its name][1]. If you need
other prompts to be shown with this priority, override this method and
place `await super.prompting()` either before or after your additional
prompts.

[1]: https://yeoman.io/authoring/running-context.html#the-run-loop

### copyTemplate

Copies a template file to the destination. Similar to `this.fs.CopyTpl`
except it takes relative paths and has sane defaults.

#### Parameters

-   `templatePath` **[string][22]** Path to the template file in the templates
      directory.
-   `destinationPath` **[string][22]** Path to the desination
      file in the destination directory. (optional, default `templatePath`)
-   `options` **[Object][24]** Data properties for the
      template. (optional, default `this.options`)

### extendJson

Adds properties to a json file. Similar to `this.fs.extendJSON` except
that it accepts a relative path, indents with tabs, accepts a customizer
function to change merging behavior as needed.

#### Parameters

-   `destinationPath` **[string][22]** Path to the json file in the
      destination directory.
-   `contents` **[object][24]** Object with properties to merge into the json
      file.
-   `customizer` **[function][25]?** A customizer function, as accepted by
      lodash [mergeWith][27]. If
      omitted, this method will use a customizer that concatenates arrays
      occurring at the same property path, instead of simply overwriting the
      old array values with the new. (optional, default `concatArrays`)

### extendTsConfig

Adds properties to tsconfig.json at the destination. Behaves exactly as
`#extendJson` for that file.

#### Parameters

-   `contents` **[object][24]** Object with properties to merge into the
     tsconfig.json file.
-   `customizer` **[function][25]?** Customizer function as described in
      `#extendJson` (optional, default `concatArrays`)

### extendPackage

Adds properties to package.json at the destination. Behaves exactly as
`#extendJson` for that file.

#### Parameters

-   `contents` **[object][24]** Object with properties to merge into the
     package.json file.
-   `customizer` **[function][25]?** Customizer function as described in
      `#extendJson` (optional, default `concatArrays`)

### addScripts

Adds npm scripts to package.json at the destination. Any script with a
name that already exists is appended to the existing script with a
`&&` separator, instead of replacing it completely.

#### Parameters

-   `scripts` **[object][24]** Object with script strings to add, keyed by the
      script name.
-   `prepend` **[boolean][26]** Set true to prepend to existing
      scripts instead of appending. Will likewise use `&&` as a separator. (optional, default `false`)

### sortScripts

Sorts the scripts in package.json according to the provided array of
names. Any name that is not present will be skipped. Any name that is
present but not specified in the array will retain its prevous sort
position, except at the end of any that are specifed in the array. This
is nice for restoring sanity to your list of scripts in package.json
after several composed generators have modified it.

#### Parameters

-   `names` **[Array][23]&lt;[string][22]>** 

[2]: #generator

[3]: #parameters

[4]: #examples

[5]: #destinationname

[6]: #optionprompt

[7]: #parameters-1

[8]: #prompting

[9]: #copytemplate

[10]: #parameters-2

[11]: #extendjson

[12]: #parameters-3

[13]: #extendtsconfig

[14]: #parameters-4

[15]: #extendpackage

[16]: #parameters-5

[17]: #addscripts

[18]: #parameters-6

[19]: #sortscripts

[20]: #parameters-7

[21]: https://yeoman.github.io/generator/Generator.html

[22]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String

[23]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array

[24]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object

[25]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/function

[26]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Boolean

[27]: https://lodash.com/docs/4.17.11#mergeWith
